:art: - refactor: docs (#813)
maykinmedia/open-archiefbeheer: backend/docs/developers/setup-local-env.rst

* `Python`_ - check the ``Dockerfile`` for the required version.
* Python `Virtualenv`_ and `Pip`_

> * `PostgreSQL`_ and `GDAL`_ - check the ``Dockerfile`` for the required version.

Reviewer: GDAL can be at top level, but maybe mention PostGIS after PostgreSQL

       npm run build

#. Run the migrations with ``src/manage.py migrate``

.. note::

>        If you get an error about the ``django.contrib.gis`` module,

Reviewer: Does it necessarily need superuser permissions or just any adequate permissions, please check with @SilviaAmAm

Reviewer 2: Yes you need to be a superuser to install the postgis extension. You can either log into postgres as superuser, connect to the database and run `CREATE EXTENSION POSTGIS` or you can give superuser rights to the openarchiefbeheer user. I generally do the former.

>        you need to install the GDAL library and/or enable the extension or give superuser privileges. See the requirements in the Dockerfile.

Reviewer 2: You need indeed to have Gdal (in the docker file it's done with `apt install gdal-bin`) and install the extension in the database (see previous comment).

#. Create a superuser to access the management interface: ``src/manage.py createsuperuser``
#. To set environment variables settings, vreate a ``.env`` file. You can use and modify the provided example:

  .. code:: bash

    cp dotenv.example .env

#. Generate the translation files:
 .. code:: bash

>     src/manage.py makemessages -a

Reviewer 2: In the backend/ dir, you should run `./bin/make_translations` (https://github.com/maykinmedia/open-archiefbeheer/blob/main/backend/bin/make_translations.sh)

    src/manage.py compilemessages --locale nl

#. Run the development server with ``src/manage.py runserver``

Optionally You can load initial zaak data to populate your database. Do note, that this is a timely process (~30-60 minutes):

 .. code:: bash

>     src/manage.py cache_zaken

Reviewer 2: Before this can work, you need to configure your services. Here https://github.com/maykinmedia/open-archiefbeheer/blob/main/backend/docs/developers/setup-local-env.rst#open-zaak it describes how to start openzaak locally and there is a fixture to configure the openzaak services. 
But maybe we should also add to it a selectielijst service fixture :thinking:

Reviewer 2: (Also with the local openzaak it takes ~one minute to sync)

       npm run build

#. Run the migrations with ``src/manage.py migrate``

   .. note::

      If you get an error about the ``django.contrib.gis`` module,
      you need to install the GDAL library and/or enable the extension or give superuser privileges. See the requirements in the Dockerfile.

#. Create a superuser to access the management interface:

   .. code:: bash

      src/manage.py createsuperuser

#. To set environment variables settings, create a ``.env`` file. You can use and modify the provided example:

   .. code:: bash

      cp dotenv.example .env

#. Generate the translation files:

   .. code:: bash

      ./bin/make_translations

>       src/manage.py makemessages -a

Reviewer 2: This is not needed (it is done inside the `make_translations.sh` script). Also, the .sh extension is missing in the line above.

      src/manage.py compilemessages --locale nl

#. Run the development server with ``src/manage.py runserver``

#. Optionally, you can load initial zaak data to populate your database.

   .. note::

      This is a time-consuming process:

>       - ~30–60 minutes **without** a local Open Zaak instance

Reviewer 2: This depends on how much data there is in the external openzaak, so it may be more meaningful to say how long it will take depending on the number of zaken.

      - ~1–2 minutes **with** a local Open Zaak instance

   .. important::

>       For this to work, the services need to be set up correctly. You can either do this manually, or follow the instructions to :ref:`start a local Open Zaak instance <open-zaak-section>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      For this to work, the services need to be set up correctly. You can either do this manually in the admin, or load the fixture provided in the instructions to :ref:`start a local Open Zaak instance <open-zaak-section>`.
```

   To load the data, run:

   .. code:: bash

      src/manage.py cache_zaken

> #. Optionally, you can load fixtures for the templates of the admin and for the admin index configuration:

Reviewer 2: This is a bit vague, you may want to say the "email templates" + the name of the fixture (and the other fixtures that should be loaded). A django developer would know how to load a fixture, so it is more useful to specify which fixtures are required.
